[CUBRIDQA-855] add cci test guide (#571)
CUBRID/cubrid-testtools: doc/cci_guide.md

    test.c(191) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle)       test.c(191) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle) 

    $ echo $?
    0
    ```
   If the .output file is different from .answer file, the result turns out NOK.

# 3. Deploy Regression Test Environment
## 3.1 Test Machine
**Controller node**: It listens to test messages and starts a test when there is a test message. It will distribute test cases to each test node for execution.  
**Test node**: It executes test cases.
For current daily regression test, controller node and test node are the same one.  
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>No.</th>
    <th>Role</th>
    <th>User Name</th>
    <th>IP</th>
    <th>Hostname</th>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>1.</th>
    <th>Controller node and Test node</th>
    <th>cci</th>
    <th>192.168.1.78</th>
    <th>func03</th>
  </tr>
</table>

## 3.2 Deploy Test Environment
### On controller & test node
* Install CTP
  - Please refer to the guide to [install CTP as Regression Test platform](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform)

>   - touch ~/CTP/conf/shell_template.conf     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Create regression test configuration ~/CTP/conf/shell_template.conf     
```

    Here is the config file which we used for current daily cci regresion test: shell_template.conf 
    ```bash
    $ cat shell_template.conf 
    default.cubrid.cubrid_port_id=1568
    default.broker1.BROKER_PORT=30090
    default.broker1.APPL_SERVER_SHM_ID=30090
    default.broker2.BROKER_PORT=30091
    default.broker2.APPL_SERVER_SHM_ID=30091

    scenario=$HOME/cubrid-testcases-private/interface/CCI/shell/_20_cci
    test_continue_yn=false
    testcase_exclude_from_file=
    testcase_update_yn=true
    testcase_git_branch=develop
    testcase_timeout_in_secs=7200
    test_platform=linux
    test_category=cci
    testcase_exclude_by_macro=LINUX_NOT_SUPPORTED
    testcase_retry_num=0
    delete_testcase_after_each_execution_yn=false
    #enable_check_disk_space_yn=true
    #owner_email=Mandy<cuman@navercorp.com>

    git_user=cubridqa
    git_pwd=******
    git_email=dl_cubridqa_bj_internal@navercorp.com

    feedback_type=database
    feedback_notice_qahome_url=http://192.168.1.86:6060/qaresult/shellImportAction.nhn?main_id=<MAINID>
    feedback_db_host=192.168.1.86
    feedback_db_port=33080
    feedback_db_name=qaresu
    feedback_db_user=dba
    feedback_db_pwd=
    ``` 

> * Touch start_test.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create quick startup script `start_test.sh`
```

    ```bash
    $ cat start_test.sh
    #!/bin/sh
    cd $HOME/CTP/common/script

>     sh upgrade.sh

Reviewer: After firstly execute stop_consumer.sh, do upgrade step.

# 1. Test Objective
The cci test is aimed to test CUBRID CCI driver. We write cci test cases to test all kinds of CCI Applications, such as `cci_connect()`, `cci_connect_with_url()`, `cci_cursor()`, `cci_fetch()`, `cci_get_data()`, `cci_get_result_info()` and so on. Actually cci test is a branch of shell test, the only difference is that cci shell scripts must execute C codes which include CUBRID CCI API.

> # 2. Execute CCI Test

Reviewer: Refactor categories as below:

2.1 Install CUBRID that we plan to test

2.2 Prepare test cases
Generally, we check out test cases from git repository. CCI test cases are located in https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private/tree/develop/interface/CCI/shell.

```
.....
```

2.3 Install CTP
Please refer to the guide to [install CTP in Linux platform]( https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#1-install-ctp-in-linux-platform).

Create cci test configuration file as below:
File CTP/conf/cci.conf
```
scenario=$HOME/cubrid-testcases-private/interface/CCI/shell/_20_cci
```

2.4 Execute test
```
ctp.sh shell -c ./cci.conf
```

2.5 Examine test results

Author: install cubrid, we can  use run_cubrid_install in CTP,I'll install CTP> install CUBRID

To perform the cci test, we need to install CTP first.   

> ## 2.1 Install CTP

Reviewer: Remove detail description for 2.1. 

Replace with:
Please refer to the guide to [install CTP in Linux platform]( https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#1-install-ctp-in-linux-platform).

        test.c(122) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle)       test.c(122) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle) 

        conn_handle is digit in cci_execute_batch()                     conn_handle is digit in cci_execute_batch()
        num_query< number_sql_stmts of cci_execute_batch()              num_query< number_sql_stmts of cci_execute_batch()

        positive cases                                                  positive cases

        query_result: 0@0@1@1@1@1@                                      query_result: 0@0@1@1@1@1@

        negative of cci_end_tran()                                      negative of cci_end_tran()
        test.c(179) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid transaction type argum   test.c(179) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid transaction type argum

        test.c(185) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle)       test.c(185) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle) 

        test.c(191) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle)       test.c(191) - batch_01 ERROR : Invalid connection handle) 

        $ echo $?
        0
        ```
       If the .output file is different from .answer file, the result turns out NOK.

> # 3. Deploy Regression Tests Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 3. Deploy Regression Test Environment
```

## 3.1 Test Machine
**Controller node**: It listens to test messages and starts a test when there is a test message. It will distribute test cases to each test node for execution.  
**Test node**: It executes test cases.
For current daily regression test, controller node and test node are the same one.  
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>No.</th>
    <th>Role</th>
    <th>User Name</th>
    <th>IP</th>
    <th>Hostname</th>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>1.</th>
    <th>Controller node and Test node</th>
    <th>cci</th>
    <th>192.168.1.78</th>
    <th>func03</th>
  </tr>
</table>

> ## 3.2 Deploy Tests Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3.2 Deploy Test Environment
```

### On controller & test node
* Install CTP
  - Please follow [install CTP](#21-install-ctp).  

>     Configure CTP/conf/common.conf as below:

Reviewer: Remove content "Configure CTP/conf/common.conf as below"

Replace with:
Please refer to the guide to [install CTP as Regression Test platform](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform).
https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform

    ```bash
    $ cat common.conf 
    git_user=cubridqa
    git_pwd=******
    git_email=dl_cubridqa_bj_internal@navercorp.com
    default_ssh_pwd=*******
    default_ssh_port=22

    grepo_service_url=rmi://192.168.1.91:11099

>     coverage_controller_pwd=uV9b3KMp5%%

Reviewer: Private information. Please remove with priority.

    test_category=cci
    testcase_exclude_by_macro=LINUX_NOT_SUPPORTED
    testcase_retry_num=0
    delete_testcase_after_each_execution_yn=false
    #enable_check_disk_space_yn=true
    #owner_email=Mandy<cuman@navercorp.com>

    git_user=cubridqa
    git_pwd=******
    git_email=dl_cubridqa_bj_internal@navercorp.com

    feedback_type=database
    feedback_notice_qahome_url=http://192.168.1.86:6060/qaresult/shellImportAction.nhn?main_id=<MAINID>
    feedback_db_host=192.168.1.86
    feedback_db_port=33080
    feedback_db_name=qaresu
    feedback_db_user=dba
    feedback_db_pwd=
    ``` 
* Touch start_test.sh
    ```bash
    $ cat start_test.sh
    #!/bin/sh
    cd $HOME/CTP/common/script
    sh upgrade.sh
    cd $HOME
    stop_consumer.sh 
    rm -f nohup.out
    nohup ~/CTP/common/script/start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_CCI_LINUX -exec run_shell -s china &
    ```
* Check out test cases
    ```bash
    cd ~
    git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private.git 
    ```
* Install necessary shell commands   
  cci test cases use killall command, centos7 can not find this command   
   ```bash
   yum install psmisc
   ```    
# 4. Regression Tests

> We perform cci/cci_debug for daily (actually is for each build) and perform code coverage test of cci for monthly. cci_debug is executing cci test cases with a debug build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We perform cci/cci_debug for daily (actually is for each build) and code coverage test for monthly. The `cci` is executed with release build and `cci_debug` is executed with a debug build.
```

Reviewer: Change as this.

## 4.1 Daily Regresion Test

> When a new build comes, cci daily regression test will start. We just need to make sure that test environment has no problem and listener has been started. If there are not test messages for this build, we need to send messages manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new build comes, cci daily regression test will start. We just need to make sure that test environment has no problem and listener has been started. Sometimes, in order to investigate or correct a test, we need to send messages manually.
```

### Start the listener
```bash
$ cd ~
$ sh start_test.sh &
$ tail -f nohup.out
```
### Send test message

> * To execute a cci test with release build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To execute a cci test with release build  
```

   Login message@192.168.1.91
    ```bash
    cd ~/manual/
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_CCI_LINUX http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64.sh cci default
    ```

> * To execute a cci_debug test with debug build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To execute a cci_debug test with debug build  
```

    Login message@192.168.1.91
    ```bash

>     cd ~/manual/

Reviewer: Needn't go into `manual` folder.

    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_CCI_LINUX http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh cci_debug default
    ```

> * For example, run a cci test on 10.2.0.8369-5a75e41 build, you need to send a message like below.

Reviewer: Merge into "To execute a cci test with release build".

    ue_10676_caserror_with_url.sh EnvId=local [OK]
    [ENV STOP] local
    Success num: 320, Fail_num: 0, Skipped(macro): 0, Skipped(temp): 0, Total Scenario: 320
    Test Rate: 100.0%
    Success Rate: 100.0%
    log4j:WARN No appenders could be found for logger (org.apache.http.impl.conn.BasicClientConnectionManager).
    log4j:WARN Please initialize the log4j system properly.
    log4j:WARN See http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/faq.html#noconfig for more info.
    The Import Url = http://192.168.1.86:6060/qaresult/shellImportAction.nhn?main_id=22441
    #Status: [Success] Data Import Complete! srcId=22441
    TEST COMPLETE
    [SHELL] TEST END (Tue Aug 13 23:26:18 KST 2019)
    [SHELL] ELAPSE TIME: 17396 seconds
    /home/cci/CTP
    ++++++++ Message-190813-183615-446-000001 stop at 2019-08-13 23:26:19 KST ++++++++

    Clean msg id from queue file
    END_TIME:2019-08-13 23:26:19 KST
    ```
* Check queue on [qahome page](http://qahome.cubrid.org/qaresult)    
  Please find queue monitor by `QA homepage` -> `Left tree menu` -> `Monitor` -> `Check queue`. You may see cci item and find what test is running.   

### Verify test result

> please see [Verify cci/cci_debug test result](#51-verify-ccicci_debug-test-result)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see [Verify cci/cci_debug test result](#51-verify-ccicci_debug-test-result)
```

## 4.2 Code Coverage Test
### Send test message
login message@192.168.1.91
```bash
cd ~/manual/
sh sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_CCI_LINUX http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84-gcov-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84/drop/cubrid-10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84-gcov-src-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz cci
```
>Note: 
`$ sh sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh`    
`Usage: sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message queue url1 url2 category`    
`Queue:$1`   
`Build URL:$2`   
`Source URL:$3`   
`Category:$4 `  

### Check running status
Please see [Check running status](#check-running-status)
### Check test result
Please see [Verify code coverage test result](#52-verify-code-coverage-test-result)

> # 5. Verification

Reviewer: It's better to move 5.1 and 5.2 as sub item of 4. 
And 5.2 merges into 4.2.

## 5.1 Verify cci/cci_debug test result
### Check test result
If cci/cci_debug are not tested completely, you need to send a message to test it again, you can check the value of `Test Rate` or check executed cases(success cases plus fail cases).   
If there are failures, you need to verify them.   

> When there are crash, the fail will marked with red alert icon.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is crash, the fail will be marked with red alert icon.   
```

> open [qahome](http://qahome.cubrid.org/qaresult)->select `build number`->select `Functions` page ->find `cci/cci_debug` item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open [qahome](http://qahome.cubrid.org/qaresult)->select `build number`->select `Functions` page ->find `cci/cci_debug` item
```

1. All failed test cases in list are not be verified   
![failure list](./cci_image/failure_list.png)

2. All failed test cases in list have been verified   
![verified test cases](./cci_image/failure_list_verified.png)

3. How to verify the failure     
please find reason of this case executed failed, you can refer to [failure detail page](#check-failure-detail) or reproduce it again.    
click `verify`->select `revise required/test case/environment/bugs/unknown` type -> fill in `Reason content`, `New issues` or `Revise required issues`.    
`New issues` : It is link to a jira issue which reported by this case   
`Revise required issues`: It is link to a jira issue which lead to change in test case and answer   
When we judge the type of reason for failure is bug, we must fill in CUBRID jira issues.   
When we judge the type of reason for failure is revise required, we need to fill in related jira issues.   
Other failures  maybe caused by test case or environment(eg: execute time are different on machines, test case is unstable which need be enhanced)    
![fill in reason](./cci_image/failure_reason.png)
![reported bug](./cci_image/failure_bug.png)

### Check failure detail 

> each failed test case has own detail page,for example:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each failed test case has own detail page, for example:   
```

```
`user`, `passwod` and url can be used in `cci_connect_with_url(url, user, passwd)`

#### CCI API 
* Opening a database connection handle (related functions: cci_connect(), cci_connect_with_url())   
* Getting the request handle for the prepared statement (related function: cci_prepare())     
* Binding data to the prepared statement (related function: cci_bind_param())    
* Executing the prepared statement (related function: cci_execute())    
* Processing the execution result (related functions: cci_cursor(), cci_fetch(), cci_get_data(), cci_get_result_info())     
* Closing the request handle (related function: cci_close_req_handle())   
* Closing the database connection handle (related function: cci_disconnect())     
* Using database connection pool (related functions: cci_property_create(), cci_property_destroy(), cci_property_set(), cci_datasource_create(), cci_datasource_destroy(), cci_datasource_borrow(), cci_datasource_release(), cci_datasource_change_property())     

## 6.2 CCI API reference
Please refer to [CUBRID manual](https://www.cubrid.org/manual/en/10.1/api/cciapi.html)     
for example:
![cci_execute](./cci_image/CCI_API.png)

> ## 6.3 Execute cci case alone  

Reviewer: Move 6.3 to chapter 2.

Needn't describe in detail. It's okay to follow way in https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/95124dfa69ff905401096ec0b9cf783ee818da12/doc/shell_heavy_guide.md#25-execute-one-test-case

Author: after introduce cci case,  how to debug error in test cases ,it will be understood.
it is not the same with  https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/95124dfa69ff905401096ec0b9cf783ee818da12/doc/shell_heavy_guide.md#25-execute-one-test-case
it is has nothing to do with CTP, the only association is common functions in $init_path/init.sh
